# CS-340_Dashboard

- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Creating independent classes that are modular increase the portability of applications.  Classes that are hard coded with functions that require other classes can’t be separated and have to be modified for each project.  Methods such as dependency injection help keep classes independent from each other while also reducing the amount of alterations needed to each component of a program.  Readability is another important factor in maintaining and application.  Functions and classes use may not be apparent from outside perspectives.  Organization and informative notes help with explaining the design of each component.  Combining portability and readability allows adaptability in the future on projects.  Changes can’t be made if the functionality isn’t clear and too much is interconnected.  These concepts helped me a lot when designing the dashboard project.  When possible I tried to keep each widget separated so that if I needed to modify it then it wouldn’t effect other widgets and graphs.

- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I’ve learned over the course of the program how to plan out the design of a project and the steps to take in implementation.  This is different from previous projects were I would just start coding.  I frequently would have to make large revisions and would get stuck on poor design choices.  For the dashboard I focused on making sure that the data frame properly took the data from the MongoDB client and was ready for use.  Then I focused on getting the table set up with the appropriate information since I would need it for some of the widgets.  I then tackled each widget and verified functionality.  Lastly was clean up were I tested that everything worked as expected and that the design looked appealing.

- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Software engineers design competent and secure applications that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable.  Anyone can learn to code but it is up to an engineer to create software that is enterprise grade or set up in a way that won’t fall apart in future upgrades.  Planning and experience is required in order to learn these skills.
